[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The real high stakes
adventure although might seem
physical is more
of a mental game.
It's one thing to have chosen
to come to seek freedom.
It's another when reality
starts messing with you.
Elle and Fred are
feeling way out
of their comfort zone, Ryan,
facing the fierce seizures,
and Jeff and Jen realizing
this is a do-or-die trip
for their whole marriage.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If you look in nature
or anywhere there is--
evolution has this element of
discontinuity that there comes
a point where who you have
been and what made sense to you
and how you've been living
does not make sense anymore.
If we are not arriving
to these points in life,
then I think we
are not evolving.
And that's the invitation
this journey as we are going
is to really look at how can
there be a discontinuity.
And that aha moment, that
inspiration that comes
is not coming from
the linear accumulated
information in the mind.
It doesn't come
from your conflict,
doesn't come from
your inner ego space.
It comes from something
deeper and something
much more precious
within the human being.
But the moment an
inspiration comes, the mind
starts to interfere, see?
Because that story of the
mind wants to continue.
[THEME MUSIC]
>> This is not a
journey to feel better.
Do you understand?
You come here to transcend.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> I almost feel like
I'm meeting myself here.
Like, I was lost for
a long, long time.
I quit drinking two years ago,
so that's a huge part of my,
I guess, evolution
you would say.
And since then, because I
was-- he's gone all the time.
I was drinking to numb myself.
And then since I stopped,
like I've become so aware of,
you know, things that I was
trying to forget or hide
or-- you know, they've come up
to the surface and I'm like,
I'm not so happy and, you
know, I want things different.
I want joy in our house.
I want love.
I want, you know,
a lot of things
that aren't really there.
And so getting him to say
yes was probably the biggest
roadblock because he doesn't
do yoga, he doesn't meditate,
he doesn't--
because he's not changing.
I am.
And so it's-- you know,
instead of us going this way,
we can go together.
So it's a little bit
of a last chance.
>> OK, where's the water?
>> I brought the bag down.
>> Ah, oh, boy.
>> The first sacred
peak, Kedarnath,
is all about facing death,
the end of things, and fear.
But before we head
there tomorrow,
Anand has arranged
for another practice
ride, this time in the
mountains around Rishikesh.
It will be a chance to
help prepare and assess
who's really ready.
>> Did you have
issues overtaking?
Did anybody overtake a Jeep,
buses, or something yesterday?
>> Overtake a bus?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> Anybody who did it?
Did you overtake anything?
>> No, well, bikes,
but not a bus.
>> You just have to be aware
when you're overtaking,
don't overtake--
it's normal rules.
Don't overtake on turns, right?
Because when we go
up on the mountain
there will be
places we will have
to overtake the buses because
otherwise it'll take us forever
to go, yeah?
So you just have to--
when you overtake
you've got to honk
and you've got to move
really fast, you know?
Don't walk slow because
then you see an opening
and you just go
and you get clear.
A lot of time we will go at
a constant speed, you know?
You're going 30, you know, 40,
50, and you just maintain that.
No, you've got to go
really fast and cut, yeah?
[HONKING]
Like this bus.
If you get-- on these roads
when you get behind this bus,
you'll be behind it forever
if you don't overtake.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think Anand's kind of
watching everybody to see
who's who and what's what.
It's such a collective group
of people from pretty much
all over the world.
A lot of females
that I know have
come on this journey for
several different reasons,
but it's always nice to have
that feminine energy along.
You know, it kind of breaks
down the masculine energy.
>> The passengers face just
as much risk and danger riding
with people they just met.
Putting their lives
in a stranger's hands
takes a lot of faith.
>> At first it was really scary
on the back of Mark's bike.
It was-- all the fears came up.
I couldn't pinpoint exactly what
it was that was gripping me,
but it was there and I knew it.
>> Because it is a
challenge to ride in India.
It's not like anywhere
else in the western world
where, you know,
the other drivers
are going to kind of
be cautious of you.
It's not.
It's every man for
himself here in India.
I mean, if you see a car
or truck coming at you,
they're not moving
out of your way.
You've got to
anticipate you're going
to have to move out of the way.
It's exciting at the same time.
I mean, you're living
kind of on the edge.
>> So today we were riding on
a patch of road that was just
gravel and rocks, no pavement.
And I have a passenger named
Izan on the back of my bike.
With that extra weight, we hit
a rock and, bam, we went down.
And she hit the
ground very hard.
That's India.
That's these roads.
You can go down any second.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> They'll find some reason
or the other to stay stuck
in the story.
So many.
Oh god.
Every day I hear at least 5,000.
You switch on the
radio and you keep it
to-- you know in the radio
the channels are limited,
but in the radio of humanity
the channels are unlimited.
Every person has unlimited
channels, unlimited frequency
of stories they can create in
their heads, in their life,
and of all the reasoning.
And because it is your
story, you can justify it.
And that's a life of slavery.
All this reasoning
that we create,
why we need to be
in conflict, and why
we need to be in the waiting
room with the doors locked.
We can all justify it.
Oh, it's practical.
It's not practical.
All of those things, huh?
The food, or the bed, or
fear, or relations, or money,
or whatever.
>> One of our mechanics is
in charge of helping Elle,
reminding her that in India
people honk as they come
to turns to let the other
drivers know you're coming
around the bend.
[HONKING]
>> Help her, help her.
>> Just the biker come by.
Kind of startled me.
And I haven't rode on gravel
before, so it's very new.
And that bike is heavy
as hell, as you can see.
>> Elle fell twice.
>> Oh, she did?
>> Really?
>> And she got tired in the end.
>> That wasn't far.
[CLAPPING]
>> You told me it was far.
It was so close.
It was like right
over the bridge.
>> Why did you get nervous
when the car passed you?
>> Why did I get nervous when--
it was a bike.
>> Yeah.
Why did you get nervous?
>> Because he swerved.
>> No, why did you get nervous?
>> Why did I get nervous?
>> What are you afraid of?
>> I was on the outside.
>> Falling off the cliff.
>> So you hit the wall instead?
>> Yeah.
>> You can't do that.
I told you, the only thing you
need to know is to stay calm.
And if you can't do
that, you can ride.
Simple as that.
So you need to
really ask yourself,
do you have it in
you to stay calm?
If you don't, you can't ride.
Do you understand?
So you need to
really ask yourself--
you don't need to say
this, yes, I can do it.
None of that matters.
The only thing that matters
is can you stay calm?
Don't ride when you are anxious.
If you're feeling
anxious, you got to stop.
That's the only thing.
The most important thing that
I told you, you got to be calm,
yes?
>> Mm-hmm.
>> It doesn't matter your skill.
The most important is your inner
calmness, how connected you
are with the road and the bike.
How do you feel?
Do you feel at one--
as one or not?
If you feel separate from
the bike and the road,
you're going to hurt yourself.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> Do you understand?
>> Yeah.
I was also on the
gravel on that part.
And I've never been
on a gravel road.
>> That's why I intentionally
took you because we're going
to have that part.
>> Right.
>> But then you can always say
you don't want to ride, right?
You made that option or no?
>> I did.
>> Yeah, so you got to-- you
have the right to say any time
that somebody else ride.
Yes or no?
>> Yes.
>> So don't try and
prove unnecessary things.
Yeah?
You wanna ride?
>> No.
>> Not right now?
>> No, not after
getting a whooping.
Of course not.
>> Looks like he
has this in mind.
>> I just got spanked.
>> You gotta just
learn to stay calm.
>> With somewhat
easier roads up ahead,
Fred decides to hop on
the bike and give it a go,
but it's quite clear the
frustrations by the other
riders are growing.
The prospect of going slow
through these mountains
or having to stop every time
someone falls over is daunting.
These roads aren't
meant for beginners.
>> Good.
>> That said, the lessons that
Anand is teaching are not just
for Elle and Fred.
They're for everyone.
>> (SINGING) I'm waking up to
dance the dance of midnight.
I'm waking up to chance
the evening star.
I'm waking up to swim
the deepest oceans.
>> When you stand, you visualize
yourself riding absolutely
clear and you feel that.
Don't wait to get that
feeling, do you understand?
What happens is
in linear life we
are taught to get that
feeling, that I will get there.
You can't wait to get there.
You have to call that
feeling right now to you
that you need to feel it
right now because it's you.
Do you understand?
>> Yeah.
>> So you can't go, I will feel
it, I will get that feeling.
No.
You have to call that feeling.
You bring that feeling up to
you right now and then you ride.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> And when you are
off it, you don't ride.
You stop.
>> Mm-hmm.
>> There is no rush.
>> Yeah.
>> Got it?
All right, let's go meditate for
a little bit and then go back.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
(SINGING) I'm waking up to
see the perfect rainbow.
I'm waking up to touch
the air that I breathe.
I'm dancing through eternal love
>> This just feels so unsafe.
Everything just feels--
I don't want to touch nothing.
I just-- I just want to call
the airport and go home.
I don't know what
made me do this.
>> So Elle's bubble
has definitely popped.
She's way out of her comfort
zone and reeling in fear.
Thankfully, on this night
before we leave Rishikesh
on our pilgrimage we'll
do a traditional puja
using the elements,
burning away our fears
and obstacles of the mind,
and setting intentions
to go forward.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> Anand is no stranger to
these ceremonies having grown up
in a lineage of
yogis, of masters,
right here from the birthplace
of yoga in Rishikesh.
And he himself was born with a
strange astrological prophecy.
His master and others told him
when he was only 12 years old
that there will be
an accident and he
would die in his late 20s.
So Anand grew up facing
this fear, this death.
So much so that in his late
20s, just two years ago,
he took a dangerous motorcycle
journey leading myself
and seven others over the
highest road in the world.
And now having
transcended that prophecy
he leads us toward the four
sacred peaks of freedom.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> So this final ceremony is
called [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]..
What you are doing
is when you're
offer this symbolic of that
you are offering your inner--
your singular light into
the universal light.
So you are merging
into the infinite.
So that's the symbol.
And you're offering your light
is really you're tuning in.
You're tuning in
with the source,
with the whole, so
that your light--
this light in your hand becomes
symbolic of your inner self
merging into the cosmic self.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
>> Today we leave the
comforts of Rishikesh,
and Ryan will also leave behind
the comforts of his wife Kim.
>> I think that when we
get into relationships,
oftentimes we just load
the other person down with
expectations and we take away
their freedom a lot of times.
And I think that if
you really, really
want to honor your
partner and if you really
want to be of service to
your partner and service
to your relationship, then
you give them freedom.
You give them absolute freedom
like this trip for Ryan.
I mean, it's not like I
gave him permission to go,
but we're in a
place where there's
such a deep sense of
trust and commitment
there that when you
really, really know that
and really, really feel
that, you will do just about
anything for your partner.
And you know,
whether it's telling
them to take a trip
like this without you
or whether it's getting them a
cup of coffee unbegrudgingly,
it's just doing
things unbegrudgingly
and because you
truly, truly want to.
Yeah, I just-- you've
got to give them freedom.
You've got to give them space.
You've got to give them love.
You've got to give them time.
And you've got to mean it all.
You can't be half-assed
about your service.
>> So Ryan won't have his
trusted partner on the back
of his bike to look out for him
or see the signs of a seizure.
>> I get a little bit confused
and I have some trouble talking
and stuff like that, but you'd
never know that on the bike
and I wouldn't either.
And then there has been
periods of like 20 minutes
that I don't even remember
beforehand, you know?
And I'm perfectly normal, so--
>> Come out of it.
>> Yeah, and then all of a
sudden I'm like, you know--
I don't necessarily want to
be responsible for something
all the time.
I mean, I'm on the medication.
One of the things that spooks me
the most about having somebody
on the back is, you know, I know
I will not tense up on a bike,
but if somebody is on
the back and you're
like this thing on
my back, you know,
you've got to not
only self-correct
but you've got to correct for
somebody else who's throwing
your weight a little bit.
Then you go, Well, that makes me
a little bit nervous sometimes.
>> With Ryan concerned
about having a passenger
and the passengers equally
concerned about trusting
their rider, Kim steps in before
leaving to give the ladies one
last bit of advice.
>> If the bike starts to go
down, don't put your feet down.
Try and get your hands on the
seat and push yourself away.
Like push yourself
away from your rider
so you don't end
up under the bike.
And if you're getting a
little scared or freaked out,
remember what they said about
the love conquering fear?
Whenever I get into a corner
that I'm a little sketched
I just love, love,
love, love, love.
Just put it out there.
Even if you don't feel
like you're feeling it,
if you're saying it
it's somewhere in there.
Try really, really
hard not to be nervous,
to just kind of hand it over.
Because if you get
nervous on there
and you're doing
this to your rider,
they're going to be nervous
about having you on the back,
and there's a very good
chance they might say, please
get off my bike.
They're all going to
take good care of you.
They really are going to
take great care of you.
So just be mindful, don't
freak out, go with it,
and come back safe, OK?
I don't think I missed anything.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our journey to Kedarnath
will take two days.
Day one sees us go
through Devprayag,
where the Ganga river begins.
From there it's
a journey to Kund
totaling 175 kilometers, which
we'll reach before nightfall.
Day two is a short
and mud-filled
winding 50 kilometers just to
get to the base of Kedarnath.
From there, it's a
nearly 5,000 foot
straight up hike to get
to the temple of Shiva.
>> If I try to stop, that's
when I have problems.
So if I keep going forever and
ever and ever and I just die,
then fuck it.
>> I mean, at any
moment, at any time,
you're coming around turns with
huge trucks and sheer cliffs.
I mean, it's like if you don't
listen to your inner voice,
man.
>> Helping us on our journey are
three support vehicles and two
mechanics who were needed
already on day one as I blew
out my back tire.
>> I feel really good
on the bike with Jeff.
I feel more connected with him.
I'm like even if
we're not talking,
it's still we're
sharing that moment.
That's probably the time
that I can just experience,
you know, living in
the moment, in the now.
It's like I'm not thinking
about past, the future, just
looking around.
>> After a short stop at
Devprayag where the two rivers
meet and create
one mighty Ganga,
we continue onward
to the city of Kund.
And although it's
easy riding now,
we can see the warnings of
a land ravaged by monsoons.
After this bridge collapsed
they built a temporary one
in its place.
But a few days ago, that
one too fell into the water.
This will add a good three
or four hours to our journey.
>> Rain.
We're going to go
into the mountains.
The rains have begun.
>> From Kedarnath.
Look at that.
That's where we're going.
Look up.
Can't even see--
can you even see it?
This is right where the
cloudburst happened.
Just about 40
kilometers up from here
is where the
cloudburst happened.
Where's the rainbow?
Wow, look at that rainbow.
>> Oh wow.
>> Wow.
[CHATTER]
>> The skies got ominous.
They darkened and
it started to rain.
And it was clear
that Anand knew we
were headed into more
adverse rain conditions
so we all kind of changed our
clothes into our rain garb.
>> We're OK.
You see the sun shining
over there against that.
>> I'm like come on, cold.
Where are you?
>> It feel so good.
>> And suddenly the mood
changed as Ryan couldn't find
the seizure medication.
No one could find his bag.
>> Oh, Shiva.
I hear you.
>> And like Anand said,
we're going to the area where
the cloudburst happened three
days ago causing a massive
landslide killing 31 people, so
everyone definitely wants to be
fully focused and ready.
>> So we'll look.
You don't know anything yet.
>> That's right.
>> And as you go up and
look, and if it's not here,
you'll get it.
So there's no reason to worry.
>> All right.
Let's go.
>> Those tires are going
to be OK in the rain?
They're bald.
The tires are pretty bald.
>> The road is semi
wet so be careful.
When it's semi wet.
It's the most slippery.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You can see it.
The rain starts coming in.
I'm looking up and I'm like,
that sun is going down.
And I know we're
40 kilometers away.
I'm like, we're
hitting dark very soon.
We hit more rain and
then there's lightning
and now there's
lights coming at us.
It was crazy.
We were just--
I was just going in
and out of puddles
not knowing what
you're going into.
Still dodging cars, still
dodging lights, still
doing everything you would do
when it's not pouring rain,
and it was ridiculous.
>> I saw a guy on a scooter
that had nothing to do with me.
I just happened
to be passing him.
That's when I was raining.
And he lost it in the
water and his handlebar
turned right around--
two guys again--
and he went right
over the handlebars.
I don't know what
happened to the other guy
because it was
starting to get dark.
But again, I wanted to stop
and see how he was bad.
And I didn't want to lose
whoever it was in front of me
at the time.
>> Still 10 kilometers from our
destination we stop to regroup.
We're seeing people go down and
Ryan still can't find his meds.
The reality of this
journey is literally
hitting us in the face.
And the mental game?
It's on.
Do we stop, or do we keep going?
Strange enough, the
riders' attitudes
seemed light and optimistic,
or maybe we're just all
starting to lose our minds.
>> This is Shiva right here.
We're just going to fix that
light and then we'll move.
The cars will lead us
and then we'll follow.
Can't see really
anything in this light.
>> When do you think the heavy
rain is going to come down?
[LAUGHTER]
>> You can't see anything.
I love it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As a dancer, so is the dance.
As within, so without.
As is the world and the
reality of it in us,
that's how the
world comes to us.
So is the experience
that is the experience.
And that's some profound
distinction we have to realize.
If we don't realize that,
we always live as a victim.
We live with the mentality
of me against the world.
It's me against the whole.
It's me against my life.
And our whole life becomes a
story of struggle and fight.
The dance is the dancer,
and the dancer is the dance.
(RAPPING) Shiva Nataraj
dancing on the moon
like a desert mirage.
The entire universe
is his/her matage.
And everything within it's
part of Shiva's collage.
>> Were you really lost or you
just you thought you were lost?
Just answer that question.
(RAPPING) Think that through
before utter ignorance--
>> I showed what a
quantum leap looks like.
(RAPPING) --the outer world's
reflecting what is in you--
>> 14 kilometers straight up.
Thought I was going to die
and it was getting dark.
My hands were like tingly.
(RAPPING) --hold on to
something because it's
possible you'll levitate.
Let Shiva's brilliance
penetrate your mind state.
Heart space, soft
face, spine straight.
Now do you feel the
Kundalini moving
through you like a Lamborghini
through your entire body?
That's Shiva-Shakti.
Shiva Shambo.
Mahadeva Shambo.
Now if you feel the
Kundalini moving through you
like a Lamborghini
through your entire body.
That's Shiva-Shakti.
Om Namah Shivaya.
Om Namah--